# Community WG Notes - June 2025

**Watch the replays:**
[GraphQL Working Group Meetings on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP1igyLx8foHhWZk2u1SthsW1weH3VA7l)

Agenda:

[https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/blob/main/agendas/2025/06-Jun/12-community-working-group-june-2025.md](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/blob/main/agendas/2025/06-Jun/12-community-working-group-june-2025.md)

## Attendees

- Uri
- Martin
- Jem
- Benjie
- Erik

## Review agenda

- AI notes: working well, some autocorrections needed.
- AI in zoom: great way to catch up with missed parts (especially when joining
  late).
- Main focus today is the Ambassador program.

## Ambassador Program

- RFC was opened in April.
- How do we get this launched?
- Plan: present what we've written to the foundation.
- You're all highly engaged:
  1. Are we missing anything from the program that you'd want as an ambassador?
  2. What groups of people should we be asking to join?
     - Who should be our first set of ambassadors?
- Erik: happy with what we have, doesn't feel like anything is missing.
- Jem: main selling points are 15m quarterly meeting with foundation reps
- Uri: excited about this! Very well thought out. Feels ready to show the
  foundation. Would be great to launch at GraphQLConf.
- Jem: ideally we want to launch there; either opening applications there, or if
  we can do it in time - announcing the first few ambassadors!
- Uri: I've sent a few names through
- Jem: we've collected a few names too. Regular WG members, speakers at various
  conferences, people running meetups. Another idea: OSS maintainers of critical
  tooling/implementations.
- How does the application process work?
- Application email goes to TSC and Foundation members. Someone should say yes.
  Any objections would need to be investigated.
- Erik: We should make it really encouraging. Wait times can be discouraging.
  Respond rapidly, notify of review period later.
- Should Community WG be involved in reviewing applications?
- Shouldn't be public. Maybe mailinglist?
- Maybe via the community leaders channel.
- Not sure what the process of other foundations are, but seem to be internal.
- Nominations **and** applications?
- Need a GraphQL Ambassador t-shirt.
- Martin: Would rather have a small set of engaged ambassadors.
- Uri: Don't need a cap, but we should focus on engaged people. Also make sure
  that people are finding it useful. Google has a page for GDEs, there's tonnes
  of them, but it's helpful. You can see who's local, and contact them.
- **A couple of local experts in each city would be ideal.**
- There's a lot of opportunities for GraphQL Experts!
- Erik: is the goal to send more people to conferences? Or to send to local
  communities and be in every firm? We should focus on the former as it's easier
  to target, smaller and more focussed; but expand to the latter later.
- Jem: ideally I'd like to have a first cohort to announce at GraphQLConf. We'll
  raise this at the foundation, prepare an article to launch the program, and
  keep the issue updated.

## GraphQL.org design

- [https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/21](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/21)
- Conf website is up based on the new design!
