# Community WG Notes - February 2025

**Watch the replays:**
[GraphQL Working Group Meetings on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TXe95DBsNiE&list=PLP1igyLx8foHhWZk2u1SthsW1weH3VA7l)

<!-- [GraphQL Working Group Meetings on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP1igyLx8foHhWZk2u1SthsW1weH3VA7l) -->

Agenda:
[https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/blob/main/agendas/2025/02-Feb/13-community-working-group-february-2025.md](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/blob/main/agendas/2025/02-Feb/13-community-working-group-february-2025.md)

## Determine volunteers for note taking (1m, Host)

- Benjie

## Review agenda (2m, Host)

- This is the first meeting, so the agenda is quite open ended today.

## Individual goals

- Erik: GraphQL in Python; FOSDEM API meetup; local meetups. I'm curious on how
  I can help and how we can shape future GraphQL initiatives as a whole.
- Rob: hoping to start a GraphQL NY meetup; 8 people in the Discord so far
- Doc: put a lot of effort into organizing the first GraphQL Conf as an OSS
  project; currently working with LF and contributing to OSS. Hoping to get back
  into GraphQL. I really like the content creation and community aspects around
  GraphQL. Like to see more engagement through content creation.
- Pascal: work at ChilliCream; run community groups in Zurich and attend others
  too. Want an easier way to organize these - it's quite challenging to find
  talks. The best way to reach people is to stand in front of them and speak.
- Michael: I hope that the Conference planning will be more transparent. "What
  does the conference expect from talks?" Let's engage with the community
  directly because it's a community conference.
- Jeff: GraphQL has an identity crisis - it's getting used in more and more
  places, and we're uniquely positioned to define its identity.
- Jem: I've ended up being a community builder at Graphile and want to learn
  from other community leaders; I also help organize GraphQL London and am
  looking to formalize and document this process and help people access the
  support that the GraphQL Foundation has.
- Martin: I work with Jeff in the Apollo client team. I organize the Paris
  Android meetup and love building communities. I think we can do a lot more on
  the GraphQL front - would love to see GraphQL Paris grow. Hoping to get
  Stroopwafels for GraphQLConf in Amsterdam this year!
- Uri: To add transparency and to empower the community. You should be able to
  just join and help. It's also great fun to talk with GraphQL folks! Valuable
  to hear the different opinions and perspectives. Hopefully bring more energy
  to our community and GraphQL. Discuss channels and meetups. Discussing other
  projects that GraphQL is working on - not just the technical parts. Also
  communicating with other communities: REST, gRPC, OpenAPI, etc. Great way to
  put out content on case-studies - how GraphQL was successful in companies.
  Almost every popular app is using GraphQL, and yet people aren't aware of
  that.
  - Doc: especially communicating with other communities. There's a vast
    community of people who aren't software engineers, they're strictly from
    data. E.g. ocean health; lots of datasets, metadata, APIs. These folks might
    end up using GraphQL without any idea what's going on on the technology
    side. E.g. there's an example of in-memory GraphQL used for managing
    metadata - really fascinating! Cryptocurrency community also use GraphQL a
    lot, but we don't have much of a connection there. Lots of opportunities.
    Helping people be aware of all of the use-cases for GraphQL out there. AI
    and knowledge graphs also has a lot of opportunities for GraphQL.
  - Pascal: connecting with AI communities; GraphQL is really useful for them.
  - Benjie: There was a great talk at GraphQL London about AI. Good callout
- Benjie: Grease the wheels of collaboration. Champion using GraphQL for the
  smaller use cases. I love to see GraphQL used in lots of different ways. I
  want to especially represent the smaller companies. GraphQL is broadly useful
  from small startups up to big enterprises. Inform people: counter the
  misinformation that exists.
  - Doc: Like this a lot. A lot of places do start small and it doesnt get to
    the size like netflix
  - Pascal: in the .NET ecosystem the misinformation about GraphQL is one of the
    main problems. Most of our customers come from the backend, and we feel it
    should be driven more by the frontend. There's a lot of people who deny that
    GraphQL is useful and often have arguments that don't make sense because
    they don't know the technology - often consulting with companies leads to
    realisations that it doesn't have to be hard. You don't need all the various
    complexities like federation/etc - you can just start with basic GraphQL,
    how it was originally intended.
- Saihaj: most of my thoughts have already been covered. We need transparency.
  We need to counter misinformation.

## Check for ready for review agenda items (5m, Host)

- Uri: we don't need to decide all the goals on this call; we can keep
  brainstorming and even discuss asynchronously. We can put tasks/issues on the
  GitHub for the WG, and then during the meetings we can look over the topics
  discussed asynchronously.

## General discussion

- Doc: To Uri, Saihaj, Michael: on the topic of openness. Do you have ideas on
  what this openness would look like?
  - Uri: this group is part of making it more transparent. You and I used to
    discuss things in the context of the foundation which means that many people
    didn't have access to it. Letting anyone join the meetings is a big step
    towards openness.
- Saihaj: I'll summarise this and then put out bullets on things that we could
  vote on to see what we care about.
- Martin: will be using this to organize GraphQLConf?
  - Uri: the Foundation has dedicated meeting for that already that already has
    a good structure.
- Benjie:
  - Community can help with content, ideas… Keynote speaker suggestions. Topics
    we'd like to see. Bringing agreed suggestions to the GraphQL Foundation.
- Jem: GraphQL stars were a good example of something where the community could
  help
- Uri: Anyone can open issues on the GitHub repo. Monthly + extra meeting works
  great.
- Erik: chat channel? Make a discord channel?
- Doc: When adding yourself to an agenda, can you also add an agenda item?
  - Uri: Yes, this is how the other working groups work
- Doc: How do we collaborate across groups?
  - Uri: You can go on GraphQL github and see all the other working groups there
  - Uri: there is no specific working group for the website, perhaps this group
    should be a good place for that, and we can spin it off later if needed
- Doc: is there a budget for the GraphQL foundation?
  - Uri: let’s discuss in a GitHub issue
