# Community WG Notes - April 2025

**Watch the replays:**
[GraphQL Working Group Meetings on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLP1igyLx8foHhWZk2u1SthsW1weH3VA7l)

Agenda:

[https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/blob/main/agendas/2025/04-Apr/10-community-working-group-april-2025.md](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/blob/main/agendas/2025/04-Apr/10-community-working-group-april-2025.md)

## Determine volunteers for note taking (1m, Host)

- Benjie
- Jeff

## Check for [ready for review agenda items](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues?q=sort%3Aupdated-desc+is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22Ready+for+review%22+sort%3Aupdated-desc) (5m, Host)

- Will be covered by agenda.

## "Empowering the community" defined (Uri - 5 mins) requested by Doc

- Unblock and empower community initiatives
- "To support the people who are already doing stuff in any way we can"
- i.e. rather than incentivising inactive people to become active, and rather
  than assuming we know what people want, let's find out from the people who are
  doing things what they actually need/want.
- Benjie: sometimes individuals, sometimes group based - defining what it
  means - spec, docs, site, reference implementation, dev tooling; w/in
  Foundation projects
- Then ppl doing tools like servers, clients, atc
- Then ppl who like to share the word of GraphQL, empower others, do talks,
  attend events
- Sometimes more specific - one person needs support vs. a category or community
- Jeff: can we provide some guidance eg to those who submit a talk proposal; can
  we tell people’s stories, help giving them some structure or helping them to
  “pitch in”;
- “We’re here, we’re not scary, and we will help you!”
- Doc: Mentorship programs - ppl volunteer to mentor, can pair maintainers
  looking for help w newcomers who want to figure out how to contribute
- “Getting from 0 to 1 is the hardest part”

## Survey (Doc and Martin)

- Gartner/etc do "State of X, Y, Z" which may imply it's vendor focussed
- Sacha runs "State of …" which are all developer surveys, which was the case
  for State of GraphQL
- Sacha's codebase is OSS, but isn't well documented and he's offering to do a
  walk through (and maybe accept some contributions)
- Issue: no-one has stepped up to accept this walk-through; he's offered to do
  it now, he may not be available in future
- How might we find TS developers?
- The Guild have already done some PRs against that codebase, but alas they
  don't have any availability.
- Uri: We can support people who are already doing things, but we struggle to
  find people to do things to start with
- Benjie: It took quite a while to find new maintainers for GraphQL.js, though
  we have a few now.
- Doc is going to try and find some TS developers to do the walk-through

## Update for [issue 22](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/22) (making content selection more transparent) (Jem - 5 mins)

- Jem: how to make content selection and conf planning more transparent - fit
  nicely to what Benjie and I worked on w committee - launch an initiative
  called Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) - Netherlands, Amsterdam companies,
  trying to get them involved in the talk selection process
- Last year talks were rated by TSC - focused on talk quality, speaker
  reputation, their opinion of GraphQL on the stage
- This year, more focus on excitement, what might be different
- Updated a section on GraphQL website explaining the “how” (not the “who”) -
  public info where none was there before
- Please help to share the initiative, get people to sign up!
- What’s the sweetener? Tee shirt? Bowtie? Level of effort? Time commitment

## Calls for comments on the Ambassador scheme [PR 64 issue 1](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/pull/64) (Jem - 10 mins?)

- Nominations on rolling schedule
- Perhaps first before or during the conf?
- Benjie: levels of community - this is the “broader” side - tutorials, video
  content, articles w/ technical writing
- Jeff: zero to one - let’s remain flexible and get someone interested, work
  with them
- Doc: different goals - some want to speak, some want to do social media, video
- Jamie Barton for example

## Short update on the [new graphql.org design initiative](https://github.com/graphql/community-wg/issues/21) (Uri - 10 mins)

- (no notes taken, but lots of conversation)
